---
author: v4hn
comments: false
date: 2016-08-03 20:00:00+00:00
layout: page
slug: plugins
title: Plugins
---

# Plugin Interfaces

MoveIt connects a number of different fields and provides a lot of interfaces so that users can override different parts of the framework and implement new concepts without having to touching the core of the framework.
The following lists the different types of plugins and provides an overview over the use of them within the framework.

* [move_group::MoveGroupCapability](#MoveGroupCapability)
* [occupancy_map_monitor::OccupancyMapUpdater](#OccupancyMapUpdater)
* [planning_request_adapter::PlanningRequestAdapter](#PlanningRequestAdapter)
* [kinematics::KinematicsBase](#KinematicsBase)
* [planning_interface::Planner](#Planner)
* [planning_interface::PlannerManager](#PlannerManager)
* [moveit_controller_manager::MoveItControllerManager](#MoveItControllerManager)
* [moveit_ros_control_interface::ControllerHandleAllocator](#ControllerHandleAllocator)
* [moveit_sensor_manager::MoveItSensorManager](#MoveItSensorManager)
* [constraint_samplers::ConstraintSamplerAllocator](#ConstraintSamplerAllocator)
* [collision_detection::CollisionPlugin](#CollisionPlugin)

<a name="MoveGroupCapability"></a>
## move_group::MoveGroupCapability

### Usage

By implementing the [move_group_capability.h](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/blob/kinetic-devel/moveit_ros/move_group/include/moveit/move_group/move_group_capability.h) interface it is possible to realize functionalities that are executed frequently. Each capability has access to the [move group context](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/blob/kinetic-devel/moveit_ros/move_group/include/moveit/move_group/move_group_context.h) including e.g. obstacle for collision avoidance.

### Field of Application

Plugins of this type usually create communication functionality in form of a ros-service or a simple ros-topic and can operate on the move group context. Therefore, can be the possible applications very diverse.

### Interface Description

The interface is defined in the [move_group_capability.h](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/blob/kinetic-devel/moveit_ros/move_group/include/moveit/move_group/move_group_capability.h). It mainly consists of an initialize function which has to be overwritten.

### Concrete Implementation

An example for a specific plugin is the [cartesian_path_service_capability](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/blob/kinetic-devel/moveit_ros/move_group/src/default_capabilities/cartesian_path_service_capability.cpp). This particular plugin can be used to compute a cartesian path. The implementation of the intialized function is shown below. In the example the plugin advertises a topic containing information about the trajectory and a service for computing a new trajectory.  

<PRE>
void move_group::MoveGroupCartesianPathService::initialize()
{
  display_path_ = node_handle_.advertise<moveit_msgs::DisplayTrajectory>(planning_pipeline::PlanningPipeline::DISPLAY_PATH_TOPIC, 10, true);
  cartesian_path_service_ = root_node_handle_.advertiseService(CARTESIAN_PATH_SERVICE_NAME, &MoveGroupCartesianPathService::computeService, this);
}
</PRE>

Moveit offers different [default capabilities](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/tree/kinetic-devel/moveit_ros/move_group/src/default_capabilities). A description of these can be found [here](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/blob/kinetic-devel/moveit_ros/move_group/default_capabilities_plugin_description.xml). Plugins can be configured through ROS yaml parameters and the ROS plugin library. Usually the launch files generated by the [Moveit Setup Assistant](http://docs.ros.org/jade/api/moveit_setup_assistant/html/doc/tutorial.html) are already configured.

Examplary ROS yaml parameters:

<PRE>
joint_limits:
  elbow_joint:
    has_velocity_limits: true
    max_velocity: 3.15
    has_acceleration_limits: false
    max_acceleration: 0
</PRE>

<a name="OccupancyMapUpdater"></a>
## occupancy_map_monitor::OccupancyMapUpdater
<a name="PlanningRequestAdapter"></a>
## planning_request_adapter::PlanningRequestAdapter
<a name="KinematicsBase"></a>
## kinematics::KinematicsBase
<a name="Planner"></a>
## planning_interface::Planner
<a name="PlannerManager"></a>
## planning_interface::PlannerManager
<a name="MoveItControllerManager"></a>
## moveit_controller_manager::MoveItControllerManager
<a name="ControllerHandleAllocator"></a>
## moveit_ros_control_interface::ControllerHandleAllocator
<a name="MoveItSensorManager"></a>
## moveit_sensor_manager::MoveItSensorManager
<a name="ConstraintSamplerAllocator"></a>
## constraint_samplers::ConstraintSamplerAllocator
<a name="CollisionPlugin"></a>
## collision_detection::CollisionPlugin

Plugin API for loading a custom collision detection robot/world.

### Usage

 <PRE>
  namespace my_collision_checker
  {
  class MyCollisionDetectorAllocator :
    public collision_detection::CollisionDetectorAllocatorTemplate<MyCollisionWorld, MyCollisionRobot, MyCollisionDetectorAllocator>
  {
    public:
      static const std::string NAME_;
  };
  const std::string MyCollisionDetectorAllocator::NAME_("my_checker");
  }
  namespace collision_detection
  {
  class MyCollisionDetectionLoader : public CollisionPlugin
  {
  public:
    virtual bool initialize(const planning_scene::PlanningScenePtr& scene, bool exclusive) const
    {
      scene->setActiveCollisionDetector(my_collision_checker::MyCollisionDetectorAllocator::create(), exclusive);
      return true;
     }
   };
 </PRE>

### Field of Application

If you want to use an costumized collision detection algorithm for selfcollisions or collisions with the environment then this is a useful plugin which provides you with the necessary interfaces.

### Interface Description

The interface is defined in the [collision_plugin.h](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/blob/kinetic-devel/moveit_core/collision_detection/include/moveit/collision_detection/collision_plugin.h). It mainly consits of an initialize function which has to be overwritten.

### Concrete Implementation
NO IMPLEMENTATIONS AVAILAVLE
